Scene: Flashback in Mexico
Hector: Why? Why is this still under discussion? I don't like him.I don't care who he knows. We're supposed to trust him with our products. Big man. Big Generalissimo! Big fry cook is more like it. “The Chicken Man.” You will do what you want. But you have my vote. Never trust a South American. Dirty, dirty people.
Leonel: He broke my toy! He broke my toy!
Hector: He was just having fun. You'll get over it.
Leonel: No! I hate him! I wish he was dead!
Hector: Marco. Grab your old uncle a beer, would you? No, no. A cold one. This is what you wanted. Your brother dead. Right? You're going to have to try harder than that if you want to save him. How much longer do you think he has down there? One minute? Maybe more? Maybe less? Family is all.
Scene: Jesse’s House
Jesse: Hey, you got nothing on me, yo. All right? You can call my lawyer, Saul Goodman. Talk to my lawyer, all right? You hear me? I got nothing to say. I told you, you can call my-Christ!
Hank: You got my cell phone number, my wife's name! How did you do it? Talk! Who you working with?!
Scene: Later at Jesse’s
Merkert: Yes, sir. If you're ready to talk they wanna get a statement. Your side of what happened here. Or we can hold them off till another time. Maybe you wanna talk to a lawyer.
Scene: Hospital Room
Saul: There it is. Yo, Adrian. Rocky called, he wants his face back. Come on, I gotta cheer you up. You see that? That's your get-out-of-jail-free card. You understand get-out-of-jail-free card? I mean, just blink once if you're following. The DEA's worst nightmare is that face out in public. They'll have to steer a wide berth of young Master Pinkman for fear of the PR poop storm that will rain down on them if this story ever gets out. I mean, this b*at? Best thing for you. You're home free. Good, right? Right.
Walt: Oh, my God.
Saul: You're now the cute one of the group. Paul, meet Ringo. Ringo, Paul.
Walt: This is…Jesse, I'm so sorry for this. This should not have happened.
Jesse: But it did. No thanks to you.
Walt: But the plan did work. We would've been locked up right now if we didn't lure him away. But this, I just never saw this coming. So what? What happens now?
Jesse: What happens now? I'll tell you what happens now. Your scumbag brother-in-law is finished. Done. You understand? I will own him when this is over. Every cent he earns, every cent his wife earns is mine. Anyplace he goes, anywhere he turns, I'm gonna be there grabbing my share. He'll be scrubbing toilets in Tijuana for pennies and I'll be standing over him to get my cut. He'll see me when he wakes up and when he crawls to sleep in whatever rat hole is left for him after I shred his house down. I will haunt his crusty ass forever until the day he sticks a g*n up his mouth and pulls the trigger just to get me out of his head. That's what happens next.
Saul: My advice, that's probably not a good strategy. They're scared of you right now. They want nothing to do with you. But if you hit them they're forced to hit back hard. I mean, they will turn over every rock hither, thither and yon until someone spills the beans on you and anyone associated with you. Present company included.
Walt: Yes, I think what Saul is saying makes a lot of sense. Jesse, move on with your life. Leave it behind, all of it.
Jesse: Nothing changes once I walk out of here. I get myself a new RV and go start cooking again.
Walt: How exactly do you think you're going to get away with that? They will catch you.
Jesse: So what?
Walt: What?
Jesse: I have a get-out-of-jail-free card.
Saul: Hey, I may have overstated the power of your face.
Jesse: Not this. If the cops catch me I give them what they want the most. You. They nab me, I make a deal to give up the great Heisenberg and his million-dollar drug ring. You're my free pass…Bitch.
Scene: Empty Hospital Room
Saul: You're so sure.
Walt: Look, if he didn't give up my name while Hank was b*at him he's never going to talk.
Saul: What do you think that was, a bluff? He wants your brother-in-law. And there's gonna be lawyers creaming their underoos for a case like that. I'd take it myself if it wouldn't cause so much collateral damage. And him cooking again? Hey, when, not if, he gets caught, and he's facing 20 years, what'll he do then? Believe me, there's no honor among thieves. Except for us, of course.
Walt: No, he'll come around.
Saul: And if he doesn't, there may come a time to talk options.
Walt: Options?
Scene: DEA
Hank: I'm convinced Mr. Pinkman was involved in the manufacture and distribution of phenyl-2 methamphetamine, specifically what we call the blue meth. I tracked him to a scrap yard where he stored an early-'80s camper. An RV. While waiting for a warrant to search this vehicle which I believe to be a rolling meth lab, I received a telephone call telling me my wife, Marie, had been injured in an accident. Upon hearing the news, I left Mr. Pinkman and his vehicle to tend to my wife. Arriving at the hospital, I learned the emergency call was a hoax. My wife, fortunately, was unharmed. So I immediately went back to the salvage yard, but the RV was gone. Most likely destroyed on site.
Agent: And it was at this point you drove to the home of Jesse Pinkman?
Lawyer: I think we're done here. Agent Schrader needs to get home, get some rest.
Agent: That's fine. But just to confirm, you're taking the Fifth here?
Hank: Yeah, that's correct.
Agent: Okay. Well we just wanna give you all a heads up. Mr. Pinkman is pressing charges in this matter. He's given a detailed version of events as he sees them.
Lawyer: The word of a meth head.
Agent: We know all about his history. We're well aware, but toxicology on Pinkman, his blood is clean, he's not using.
Other Agent: The kid is even refusing his doctor-ordered pain meds far as we can tell.
Hank: So where do we go from here?
Merkert: A couple of gentlemen from OPR will come down probably tomorrow morning. Janice will give us an exact time. And you men will be continuing your investigation, so. Thanks for your time.
Agent: Right. We just need one more thing. A photo of Agent Schrader's hands. For the record.
Other Agent: Yes, of course. Bandage off, if you would. On the table is fine. Flat on the table. That's fine.
Scene: Lobby
Marie: It's all gonna work out. You've been too good to them for too many years.
Hank: I hope it goes without saying we're not talking to anybody about this, okay?
Marie: Okay.
Hank: Marie who?
Scene: Walt’s House
Walt: Hi.
Skyler: Do you have a minute?
Walt: Sure.
Skyler: I guess crime does pay.
Walt: I don't suppose you just came by to insult me.
Skyler: No. We need to talk. You heard about Hank? About what happened with this Jesse Pinkman?
Walt: Yes, I know.
Skyler: Whatever Hank was investigating him trying to find an RV is there any danger that could lead back to you?
Walt: No. Why would it? Is this why you're here?
Skyler: I'm here to talk about Hank. You know what's gonna happen to him if this Pinkman presses charges? Hank could lose everything. I thought maybe there's a way you could help him.
Walt: How?
Skyler: Contact Pinkman. Get him to drop the charges.
Walt: I don't know what kind of relationship you picture me having with this person.
Skyler: I'm not asking.
Walt: He's not my friend. It's not as if we were even close.
Skyler: I'm not asking. But there must be something you could say. Isn't it even worth a try? Hank is your family.
Walt: Not currently.
Skyler: What?
Walt: I said, not currently. I'm late. I have to go.
Scene: Lab
Gale: Hello. I was starting to get worried.
Walt: Car trouble.
Gale: Oh, that's a bummer. You should call me next time. I'll pick you up.
Walt: No sandals today?
Gale: I just thought- A bit more professional. Well, everything is on track. We got our distillate. Just waiting to-
Walt: Let's get our trays ready.
Gale: Clean, no moisture. Done.
Walt: Is our solvent filtered?
Gale: I thought you might ask that. Done.
Walt: That's good. That's good.
Gale: Hand in glove, that's what we strive for. You know, this might be the beginning of a beautiful friendship.
Scene: Dealer’s Truck
Dealer: So you the gentlemen? Lucky you boys caught me, I got a load to pick up in Memphis. I can hammer it out in about 15, but there's this girl, Lolly. Maybe Fran. She's got this fetish, she likes to get peed on. I was hoping to see her tonight but she wants to sleep before 10 so I wanna wrap it up here ASAP because traffic can be a wild card. Thing is, women who like to get peed on tend to be from the warmer climates. You'd think the ones in colder zones would be more inclined. Maybe it's a shock if the body's not acclimated but, you know, I leave that for smarter minds than me. Science is a mystery. Well, take a gander. Prices are negotiable. Buying in bulk gets you a discount. I'm running a special on these honeys. JHPs. Hollow-point b*ll*ts, known as Black Death. Check it out. Like that? So sweet, you wanna lick it. Nickel-plated brass casing, Lubalox coat. Sucker has six razor claws that expand upon impact: Shred your mama's head like a cabbage. Keep it. On the house. But I been windjamming enough. Tell me what you're looking for, what it is you need.
Leonel: Vests.
Dealer: Vests? Hell, yeah, we got vests. Right here. Sleek, comfortable, thermally bonded, non-interwoven Kevlar fiber. Stop a b*llet like a soft wang against a Quaker girl. Ain't getting through. And lightweight? So lightweight, you'll forget you're wearing it.
Marco: They work?
Dealer: Sure as shit, they do. I don't leave home without it. What the hell? You broke my freaking rib, you maniac son of a bitch. You're welcome!
Scene: Lab
Walt: Gale. What temperature did you set here?
Gale: Here? Station five, 75 C.
Walt: I said 85. 85.
Gale: I wrote it down. You said 75. I wrote it.
Walt: Well, you wrote it wrong. That's not what I said. I said 85. It's always been 85. Not 75. Not 95. Eighty-five. This is chemistry. Degrees matter.
Gale: I'm sorry. I'm very sorry.
Walt: Great. You're sorry, meanwhile you've just brewed 50 gallons of useless sludge. Congratulations. Just dump it. Dump it all. This batch is ruined.
Scene: Hank and Maries’s Bedroom
Marie: You look nice.
Hank: I look like a TV weatherman.
Marie: You want a coffee?
Hank: No.
Marie: I squeezed some orange juice. You want a glass of orange juice?
Hank: I'm all right.
Marie: What are you gonna tell them? Here's what you'll tell them. He attacked you.
Hank: He attacked me?
Marie: He swung at you with something.
Hank: Swung at me?
Marie: He attacked you with a pipe.
Hank: A pipe.
Marie: It happened fast. He resisted arrest and muscle memory kicked in and you had to disarm him. Muscle memory. Happens all the time. Years of training, your body acted faster than your brain. You had no choice but to hit him. You had to fight back.
Hank: Marie, Marie, Marie. No. I'm not gonna go in there and lie.
Marie: It's some lowlife degenerate versus you doing the job you're supposed to. Why should you be the one who pays for doing the right thing?
Hank: Oh, baby, it wasn't the right thing. It's not what the job is. I'm supposed to be better than that.
Marie: And you made one mistake.
Hank: No, it wasn't one mistake. I've been unraveling, you know? I don't sleep at night anymore. I freeze. I freeze up. My chest gets all tight. I can't breathe. Just, I panic. Ever since that Salamanca thing. I mean, Tuco Salamanca. If ever a scumbag deserved a b*llet between the eyes, It changed me. And I can't seem to control it. I tried to fight it. But then El Paso. And it's just gotten worse. What I did to Pinkman, that's not who I'm supposed to be. That's not me. All this, everything that's happened, I swear to God, Marie, I think the universe is trying to tell me something and I'm finally ready to listen. I'm just not the man I thought I was. I think I'm done as a cop. Now, this is not an easy decision, but it is one that I have to make.
Scene: Walt’s House
Walt: I'm sorry. This whole Gale situation, he's just not working out. Yes, now, it may sound unorthodox but I think our first best option is Jesse Pinkman. Hello? No, look. There's a shorthand that exists between us, experience together at a level that, quite frankly, I'm just never going to reach with Gale. Look, Mr. Fring, when I accepted your offer, I was told the lab is mine. And I know best how to run it. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, I will. I will. Okay. Goodbye.
Scene: Hospital
Walt: Listen, something's come up. I think it's a good opportunity. There's been a job opening. I need a new lab assistant.
Jesse: I already did my time. Why don't you just go get yourself a monkey?
Walt: I don't want a monkey. I want you.
Jesse: Oh, gee, thanks. Well, not interested. I got my own thing going on. And nice try, saving your asshead brother-in-law.
Walt: That's not why I'm here, Jesse. There's more. It's more than an assistant. Partners. We'll be partners again. Split everything fifty-fifty, just like before. One-point-five million dollars each.
Jesse: No.
Walt: I don't think you heard-
Jesse: I heard you fine. I said no.
Walt: Let me understand this. You're turning down one and a half million dollars.
Jesse: I am not turning down the money. I am turning down you. You get it? I want nothing to do with you. Ever since I met you everything I've ever cared about is gone. Ruined, turned to shit, dead. Ever since I hooked up with the great Heisenberg. I have never been more alone. I have nothing! No one! All right? It's all gone! Get it? No. No, no. Why? Why would you get it? What do you even care, as long as you get what you want? Right? You don't give a shit about me. You said I was no good. I'm nothing! Why would you want me, huh? You said my meth is inferior, right? Right? Hey, you said my cook was garbage! Hey, screw you, man! Screw you.
Walt: Your meth is good, Jesse. As good as mine.
Scene: Walt’s Car
Walt: Yeah?
Jesse: Fifty-fifty?
Walt: Yes, fifty-fifty.
Jesse: Okay. Partners.
Walt: Good.
Scene: DEA
Merkert: And this is the statement you want to give?
Hank: Yes, sir.
Merkert: Hank, you don't have to do this.
Hank: No, I do. I'm good.
Merkert: So we understand if we write it up like that, you'll sign it.
Hank: That's the way it happened. I accept the consequences.
Merkert: In the light of these facts as of this moment, you're suspended without pay. I have to ask you to hand over your badge and your g*n.
Hank: Yes, sir.
Merkert: Schrader. Hold up.
Hank: Yes, sir?
Merkert: I just wanted to tell you something. And you didn't hear it from me. Don't want you to get your hopes up but the word in the pipeline is Pinkman isn't pressing charges.
Hank: Why not?
Merkert: Who the hell knows? Maybe you have a guardian angel.
Scene: Parking Lot
Hank: It went fine. Well, fine means what it means, yeah. I'll tell you all about it when I get home, okay? Yeah. It's- Yeah, it's just- I don't know, baby, I just think I think we may be okay. Yeah. Okay. I love you too. Schrader.
Voice: I need you to listen very carefully. Two men are coming to k*ll you.
Hank: Come again?
Voice: They're approaching your car. You have one minute.
Hank: I don't get the gag, jagoff. Who is this?
Voice: They're coming.
Hank: Hello? Hey, Gomey, I don't know what that call was, but it's dumb even by your standards so call me when you get this.
Leonel: Finish him.
Marco: No. Too easy.
