Scene: Bar in Mexico
Tortuga: More. Another.
Bartender: Careful, senor. Hot day like today too much oil in the machine can cause it to blow a gasket.
Tortuga: There are two kinds of men in this world. Those who drink and those who pour. Shut up and fill my glass. Hey, you two. Yes, you. I used to be just like you. Worked dirt for the man till my hands bled. But no more. Because I learned that a man can never drink his fill by waiting in line for the tap.
Bolsa: Listen to him. He can teach you something!
Tortuga: Hey, how you doing, boss?
Bolsa: Good to see you, my friend. You know, I never pegged you for such a deep thinker.
Tortuga: I keep thinking I should write a book.
Bolsa: Maybe, maybe
Tortuga: So, what brings you to this burro's assh*le of a town?
Bolsa: I knew I would find you here. Don't you have something to deliver? Cutting it close, aren't you?
Tortuga: Lots of time. Tortuga may be slow out of the gate, but he always…
Bolsa: Finishes first. Yes, I know. Just like your namesake. I like the way you talk, Tortuga.
Tortuga: Yeah?
Bolsa: You've got such a way with words. They flow like a waterfall. I like that about you. I'm so stupid. I missed your birthday. No, I feel terrible. So bad I came all the way here to this burro's assh*le to give you your present.
Tortuga: Present? Come on, boss. No need to go through the trouble.
Bolsa: Forget it, I wanted to. I have it for you in the back.
Tortuga: Back there?
Bolsa: Yes. Come. Follow me.
Tortuga: It's perfect!
Bolsa: Do you really like it?
Tortuga: I love it! What a great pet it will make. Thank you, boss!
Bolsa: Excellent. Let me sign it for you. Let me sign it "For the big talker."
Scene: Outside White Residence
Mike: He's still breathing. Well, by the looks of him, he has no idea how close he came. I'm assuming Saul Goodman doesn't need to know. Mum's the word.
Scene: Driveway
Skyler: Hang on, baby.
Walt: Hello.
Skyler: Walt? Are you in the house?
Walt: Oh, hey, Skyler. Yeah, it's me.
Skyler: What? What the hell are you doing in there?
Walt: I'm back.
Skyler: No, no, you're not back, Walt. You're not back. Get out of there.
Walt: Well, it's my house too, Skyler. No I'm staying. End of story.
Skyler: We had an agreement.
Walt: I didn't agree to anything. Now, look, just come on inside and we'll talk this through, okay?
Skyler: No. No. There's nothing to talk about. I am not coming in there until you get out.
Walt: Well, suit yourself.
Skyler: Walt. Walt?
Scene: Inside
Skyler: What is wrong with you?
Walt: Skyler, I have every right to be here.
Skyler: No, you don't. You don't live here anymore. We're getting a divorce.
Walt: I don't agree to a divorce.
Skyler: Well, it's not up to you! If you don't get out of here right now, I'm gonna call the police and I'm going to tell them everything. I mean it, Walt.
Walt: There's the phone.
Skyler: It's ringing.
Operator: Albuquerque Police Department. Operator number 314. How may I help you? Albuquerque Police Department. How may I help you?
Skyler: Yes, I want to report a disturbance, please. No, no, it's not exactly, it's a domestic issue. Okay. They're connecting me. Right hand to God, I will tell them.
Walt: Do what you have to do, Skyler. This family is everything to me. Without it, I have nothing to lose.
Skyler: Fine. Yes. My name is Skyler White. I need police assistance at my home right away. My soon-to-be ex-husband broke into my house and I need an officer to come and remove him. It's 308 Negra Arroyo Lane. Okay. Okay. Thank you. They're coming.
Walter Junior: Dad's here? Dad.
Walt: Hey, son. How are you?
Walter Junior: Are you back for good?
Skyler: Why are you home so soon?
Walter Junior: I'm not.
Walt: Hey, I am starving. How about a grilled cheese?
Walter Junior: Sure.
Walt: You want one too?
Skyler: Walter. Your dad and I have something we need to discuss. When your sandwich is ready, I'll bring it to your room.
Walter Junior: Mom, can't it wait? I haven't seen Dad in, like, forever.
Skyler: Walter?
Walt: How was school?
Walter Junior: It was good.
Walt: Yeah? Homework?
Walter Junior: No, not really.
Walt: Not really? What does that mean?
Walter Junior: So are you gonna be at work tomorrow?
Walt: Yeah, that's the plan.
Cop: Hello, ma'am. We were called about a disturbance?
Skyler: It's more of a trespassing situation, really, but yeah, that was me.
Walter Junior: You called the cops on Dad?
Skyler: I came home from work and he was back. He had just moved back into the house. And I asked him to leave, but he won't listen. I just want him out. I want him out of the house.
Cop: Okay, Mrs. White, there's a couple questions I need to ask you. It's very important you answer honestly. Did he strike you?
Skyler: No.
Cop: Has he ever hit you?
Skyler: No. This is not about violence. This is about trespassing. About him being here against my will.
Cop: Okay. Trespassing. You're divorced, then?
Skyler: No, working on it. Right now, we’re separated.
Cop: Legally separated?
Skyler: There's not a court order, if that's what you mean. But we've been living apart for almost two weeks, give or take. I changed the locks. Isn't that breaking and entering?
Cop: Whose name is on the title to the house?
Skyler: Both of us. It's jointly owned.
Cop: We can't arrest a man for breaking into his own house. Not without a court order requiring he stays away. Unless he's threatened you or the kids.
Skyler: No. Not physically. But having him in the house is just, it's not a good thing. Excuse me.
Walt: I got her, honey. Come here. Here we go. You hungry? You hungry? Here we go. That was it. I'm sorry, officer. Where were we?
Other Cop: Disagreements.
Walt: Yes, well, we've had our share of that. I haven't been the most attentive husband lately.
Cop: Mrs. White, would this be easier if we stepped outside for a minute?
Skyler: No. Nope. I'm fine right here.
Cop: I'm gonna level with you, ma'am. If you want him out of the house, you'll have to help me. Is it possible maybe he's broken any laws that you know of? Anything at all. Anything that we could work with here, just tell me. Even if it's just a suspicion, I can work with that. I'll get him out of the house for you.
Other Cop: What's your take on all this?
Walter Junior: It's my mom's fault. She won't even say what my dad did and it's because he didn't do anything. I don't know why she's being this way. My dad, he is a great guy.
Walt: Son, it's not your mom's fault.
Cop: Mrs. White. I'm sorry, ma'am. There's no legal basis for us to remove your husband from the house. Next time you feel things are getting out of control you should call this number. It's the family hotline. I'd really look into some counseling. Best of luck to you folks.
Walt: Listen, thank you, officers. We're sorry.
Walter Junior: Why you gotta do this to Dad?
Walt: Junior, wait, come on. Don't blame your mother for this. Sorry.
Skyler: Welcome home.
Scene: Jesse’s House
Saul: He lives. Happy housewarming, kid. Don't look so glad to see me.
Jesse: Thanks.
Saul: Interesting decor. It's subtle. The whole minimalist thing never really blew my hair back, but hey. So how are you doing? Staying clean? Good. I was kind of worried that you were back to old habits since I didn't hear from you, you know. You realise how stupid it is to ignore your counsel's phone calls? What if I was trying to warn you that the DEA was gonna kick down your door? What then?
Jesse: Why don't you spare me the sermon and get to why you're here?
Saul: Fair enough. Remember the other day when I brought up the idea of you getting back in touch with your partner? Well, I kind of wanted to re-float that boat. I'm not suggesting you yourself get back to cooking. I mean, you being in rehab and all. I only want you to convince the master chef to do his thing. So, what do you say?
Jesse: Sure, man. Whatever.
Saul: Okay. Whatever what? I mean, you gonna call him?
Jesse: I said I'll handle it. Now, bounce, will you? Please?
Saul: Final thought. Look at this place. You're house-poor, you got no bankroll. If you get the maestro cooking again, I'll make it worth your while. Call him.
Jane’s Voicemail: If you're trying to sell me something, I've got four words for you: "Do Not Call list." However, if you're cool, leave it at the beep.
Scene: Inside Hank’s Car
Hank: Schrader. Yes, sir. Yeah, what's up? Yeah? That's great news, sir. Thank you. Yeah, yeah, absolutely, you can bet on that. Hey, listen, thanks again, sir I really appreciate you stepping to the plate. Thank you.
Steve: So you gonna keep me in suspense or what? What's the good news?
Hank: Merkert called in a couple of favors. El Paso wants me back.
Steve: Hey, man, congrats, man. That's fantastic.
Hank: Thank you.
Scene: Gus’s Chicken Farm
Gus: Hello. Gentlemen. Welcome. Thank you for coming. Any difficulty at the border?
Bolsa: The day I can't get across the border is the day I retire.
Gus: Please, come in. I apologize that it's not wheelchair accessible.
Bolsa: My apologies, Gustavo. Of course, you should have been advised. It's your territory, you had a right to bless the order. But we had no reason to believe the man was of concern to you.
Gus: Indeed, he is.
Bolsa: So you're in business with this Heisenberg.
Gus: I don't know him by that name, but yes. I've made no secret of the fact that I have always done business with certain local manufacturers. You and I, we still make money together. It's never affected our relationship.
Bolsa: Don Salamanca had a nephew named Tuco.
Gus: Yes, I knew of him.
Bolsa: Then perhaps you know Don Salamanca mentored him in the business. Thought of Tuco as a son. When Don Salamanca was no longer able, Tuco took over for his uncle. He was a key man in our organization north of the border. He was loyal. This Heisenberg, Walter White he was one of Tuco's local suppliers. Until he betrayed Tuco. So now you see, blood must be repaid by blood. Tuco's cousins here, they have the right to exact vengeance. The Salamanca family, the cartel, everyone stands shoulder to shoulder on this.
Gus: Don Salamanca. Gentlemen. I feel your loss deeply. Please accept my condolences. I have no issue with your right to vengeance. But I am presently engaged in business with this man. When our business is done he will no longer be of any concern to me. Until then I need him alive.
Bolsa: Excuse us. I don't tell you how to fry your chickens, Gustavo. You should really leave matters of my organization's politics to me.
Gus: Do I not run my own territory?
Bolsa: Of course you do. And I will advise them to be patient. But I recommend you finish your business with the man quickly. Or you risk losing the good graces of the cartel. That would not be wise. And those boys inside I cannot guarantee that they will listen. They are not like you and I.
Scene: Jesse’s House
Jane’s Voicemail: If you're trying to sell me something, I've got four words for you: "Do Not Call list." However, if you're cool, leave it at the beep. If you're trying to sell me something, I've got four words for you: "Do Not Call list. " However, if you're cool, leave it at the beep. If you're trying to sell me something, I've got four words for you…”
Scene: White Residence
Skyler: Sweetheart. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's okay. It's okay, my girl. Yes, it's okay. It's okay. Mama's got you. I've got you. Yes. Yes.
Walt: Skyler? Want some help? Skyler, can I use the bathroom? God.
Scene: Lawyer’s Office
Lawyer: What do you mean? Against your will?
Skyler: Yes. Very much against my will. He just showed right back up. And he doesn't want a divorce. Won't even consider it. I called the police on him. I was so close…
Lawyer: So close to what?
Skyler: Nothing. Never mind.
Lawyer: Skyler, I can't advise you properly if you don't give me all the facts. Understand, I'm bound by the attorney-client privilege to keep everything you tell me a secret. I can't tell a soul unless you authorize me to.
Skyler: Even if it's something illegal?
Lawyer: Especially if it's illegal. I'm your lawyer, not the police. My job is to protect you.
Skyler: My husband makes meth. Methamphetamine.
Lawyer: Your husband's a drug dealer?
Skyler: A manufacturer, technically. They call them cooks. I looked it up on the Internet.
Lawyer: This is my advice, and you should take it: Sue your husband for divorce immediately. Let me go to the police and tell them what you just told me. I'll go in ex parte to get a restraining order from the court today. If he comes anywhere near you and your children, he'll go straight to jail. No questions asked. This is a no-brainer. It's the best thing for you and your family.
Skyler: I can't. I can't do it. I don't want my son to find out that his father is a criminal. I just, I can't do that to him.
Lawyer: In the end, it may not be up to you. Drug dealers have a way of getting caught.
Skyler: Walt has lung cancer. His treatment bought him some time. But the doctors, they all say that sooner or later. I can't see why I should lay all this on my family when things may resolve themselves on their own without anyone else knowing.
Scene: Bar
Steve: Man, did I lose a bet or something? What are we doing in this sh*thole?
Hank: Relax, will you?
Steve: Relax? This is the kind of place you get knifed. We should have went to Chili's, man.
Hank: All right, already. Jesus.
Steve: Outback Steakhouse. It's not too late. They got that Blooming Onion.
Hank: What's wrong with spicing things up a little?
Steve: This spice looks like it's been through a couple of guys already. So when you headed back down to El Paso?
Hank: You know. Between all the packing, errands, getting the ducks in a row maybe a week or two.
Steve: Week or two? Come on, man. I'd be dying to get back in the action. It's not like there's nothing going on up here.
Hank: What are you talking about?
Steve: Ain't jack going on up here. It's quiet as hell.
Hank: I'm gonna hit the head. Those two over there. I think they're holding.
Steve: Man, in this place, the bartender's probably holding. All right.
Hank: What you doing?
Steve: Calling A.P.D. What do you think?
Hank: Since when can't we handle a couple dirtballs?
Steve: Come on, man. Courtesy call. What if Vice is running some kind of undercover op?
Hank: Screw it. It's your turn to pay.
Steve: Where you going?
Hank: Gotta take a leak.
Steve: Jesus, get yourself some Flomax.
Hank: Stand up.
Guy: You got a problem with us, bitch?
Hank: Your move. DEA. Don't move. Go out and tell my partner to get his ass in here.
Scene: Jesse’s House
Jane’s Voicemail: If you're trying to sell me something, I've got four words for you: "Do Not Call list." However, if you're cool, leave it at the beep. If you're trying to sell me something, I've got four words for you: "Do Not Call…”
Recording: The number you have reached, 149-4985 in area code 505 is no longer…
Scene: White Residence
Walt: Skyler. Can we talk?
Scene: DEA
Steve: ASAC wants to see you.
Hank: And?
Steve: We were hanging back, saw a deal go down. I went outside to call it in. You stayed to keep an eye on the suspects. That's when they attacked you. What I didn't tell him is that you left your g*n under the seat before you went back inside.
Scene: White Residence
Walt: I've done a terrible thing. But I did it for a good reason. I did it for us. That is college tuition for Walter Jr and Holly 18 years down the road. That is health insurance for you and the kids. For Junior's physical therapy, his SAT tutor. It's money for groceries, for gas, for birthdays and graduation parties. Skyler, that money is for this roof over your head. The mortgage you aren't gonna be able to afford on a part-time bookkeeper's salary when I'm gone.
Skyler: Walt, I…
Walt: Please. Please. This money, I didn't steal it. It doesn't belong to anyone else. I earned it. The things I've done to earn, the things that I've had to do I've got to live with them. Skyler, all that I've done, all the sacrifices that I have made for this family all of it will be for nothing if you don't accept what I've earned. Please. I'll be here when you get home from work. You can give me your answer then.
Scene: Beneke
Ted: Hey, Sky.
Skyler: Are your kids home?
Scene: White Residence
Louis: Hey, Mrs. White.
Skyler: Hey, Louis.
Louis: Hey, thanks for having me over for dinner.
Skyler: Sure.
Walt: Hey, Skyler. I'm cooking dinner. Pot roast. So how was your day?
Skyler: Good.
Walt: Good. Excellent. I hope you don't mind, I invited Louis to stay for dinner tonight. You know, as a thank you for driving Walter Jr. to school for us. We've been kind of absent but, I tell you, Louis really pitched in. Look, I just wanna say that I feel good about our talk this morning and I'm very eager to hear what you're thinking about what we talked about. But, you know, whenever you're ready, of course. Honesty is good. Don't you think?
Skyler: I f*cked Ted. Boys, dinner. Iced tea?
Walter Junior: Yeah. Okay. Thank you.
Skyler: Louis?
Louis: Yes, please.
Skyler: All right. I want you boys both to eat your salad, okay? Okay. I know nobody likes salad but it's good for you.
